JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
MIKE PENCE (R), Vice
President-Elect: We are
all ready to go to work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the eve of
Donald Trump's
inauguration as the 45th
president of the
United States, the nation
prepares for a new
leader of the free world.
Then: The president-elect's
picks face the
Senate's scrutiny.
Former Texas Governor Rick Perry
defends his
nomination as energy secretary,
while treasury
secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin
is asked
about his controversial
financial record.
And faking normal -- one woman's
story about
losing all her income and
discovering the
invisible fence keeping older
women out of
the work force.
ELIZABETH WHITE, Author, "
Fifty-Five, Unemployed
and Faking Normal": You're the
loser.
You know, how can you have this
kind of background
and be landing here?
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The tumultuous
campaign and
stunning election victory have
all been prelude
to tomorrow for Donald Trump.
He made ready today for his
formal inauguration
as president.
John Yang has our report.
JOHN YANG: President-elect Trump
arrived at
Joint Base Andrews outside
Washington almost
exactly 24 hours before he takes
the oath
of office.
Vice president-elect Mike Pence
was already
in Washington, talking up the
transition.
MIKE PENCE (R), Vice
President-Elect: I'm
pleased to have a chance to
report, to the
American people and to all of
you, the progress
that we have made at the
president-elect's
direction preparing a team that
will be ready
to serve the American people and
making America
great again on day one.
JOHN YANG: But a series of
reports, including
in The New York Times and
Politico, quoted
Obama national security
officials saying that
the Trump team's delay in
filling some jobs
had slowed the transition.
Today, Trump spokesman Sean
Spicer key Obama
officials would stay until
successors were
picked.
SEAN SPICER, Incoming White
House Press Secretary:
We have appointed 50 people to
maintain critical
positions to maintain their
office.
We have looked through the
entire government
and found areas where there is a
critical
need to maintain someone.
JOHN YANG: They include Deputy
Secretary of
Defense Robert Work, and Brett
McGurk, the
envoy to the International
Coalition Combating
ISIS.
At the same time, Spicer slammed
Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer for slowing
the confirmation
of Mr. Trump's Cabinet.
SEAN SPICER: Why are they
delaying Elaine
Chao?
Why are they not moving on Dr.
Ben Carson?
Why are they not moving on
Governor Nikki
Haley?
JOHN YANG: Schumer said the
delays were over
ethics concerns.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: If
there were ever a group of
Cabinet nominees
that cry out for rigorous
scrutiny, it's this
one.
Every day, there's another
report of a major
ethical lapse among the nominees
for the Cabinet,
the swamp Cabinet.
JOHN YANG: Spicer said it's all
politics.
SEAN SPICER: These people have
had their paperwork
in.
Their quality and caliber and
integrity is
unquestionable.
And I think to see some of these
attacks and
the focus not be on issues like
schools and
teachers and homeland security
is a problem.
JOHN YANG: This morning, Mr.
Trump made his
final Cabinet pick, naming
former Georgia
Governor Sonny Perdue as his
choice to be
agriculture secretary.
Perdue was the state's first
Republican governor
since Reconstruction and started
businesses
that deal in fertilizers and
grain trading.
With the Perdue pick, Mr. Trump
had rounded
out a proposed Cabinet slate
that, for the
first time in nearly 30 years,
includes no
Hispanic nominees.
Spokesman Spicer insisted today
that, in time,
there will be diversity, when
the Trump administration
is considered in its totality.
SEAN SPICER: He continues to put
together
an amazingly diverse Cabinet.
And I think, so if you're
looking specifically
at Hispanics, I think, as we
move forward,
we have got 5,000 jobs to fill.
There is going to be a
tremendous number of
Hispanic-Americans that fill
those posts.
JOHN YANG: Later, at a luncheon
at his Trump
Hotel in Washington, he
indicated that Woody
Johnson, owner of the New York
Jets NFL team,
would be nominated as ambassador
to Great
Britain.
This afternoon, Mr. Trump took
part in a wreath-laying
ceremony at the Tomb of the
Unknown, a tradition
for incoming presidents on the
eve of taking
office.
He ended his day making an
entrance at a sunset
concert on the steps of the
Lincoln Memorial.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: President
Obama issued a final round of
commutations
on his last full day in office.
He shortened the prison
sentences of 330 federal
inmates convicted of drug
crimes, the most
ever commutations in a single
day.
The White House said he's now
cut the sentences
of 1,715 people during his time
in office.
That's more than any other
American president.
He also freed 568 inmates who
had been serving
life terms in prison.
The Obama administration has
punctuated its
fight against the Islamic State
with a major
airstrike in Libya.
The Pentagon says that it
targeted militants
who were actively planning
attacks in Europe.
The raid last night hit ISIS
camps 30 miles
south of the Libyan city of
Sirte, and it
killed 80 fighters.
Two B-2 stealth bombers flew for
30 hours,
from Missouri to Libya and back,
and they
dropped roughly 100 guided
bombs.
The planes had not seen combat
since 2011.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: This
was a decision made by
commanders based on
the specific mission
requirements here, the
capabilities of the B-2
specifically, not
on in terms of its payload but
also its ability
to loiter.
There were specific reasons why
the commanders
felt this was the appropriate
platform to
use.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Pentagon says
that initial
assessments are that the strike
was successful,
but it's unclear whether any
high-profile
ISIS leaders were killed.
The death toll from yesterday's
suicide bombing
in Mali has risen to 77.
The bombers struck government
forces and former
rebels who've been trying to
enforce a 2015
peace treaty.
Surveillance footage captured
the blast as
the vehicle breached a compound
where fighters
had gathered for a meeting.
A group linked to al-Qaida
claimed responsibility.
A political crisis intensified
in the African
nation of Gambia today, with the
defeated
president refusing to step
aside.
Troops from neighboring states
entered the
small West African nation to
force him out,
after the new president took the
oath of office.
Paraic O'Brien of Independent
Television News
has our report.
PARAIC O'BRIEN: A nation holds
it breath in
the run-up to a defining
inauguration, the
swearing-in of a political
outsider, a reformer,
on a promise to make a country
great.
This afternoon, the elected
president of the
Gambia, Adama Barrow, took the
oath.
ADAMA BARROW, Gambian
President-Elect: I,
Adama Barrow, do swear.
PARAIC O'BRIEN: The ceremony
though took place
at the Gambian Embassy in
neighboring Senegal.
The man beaten in elections last
year, Yahya
Jammeh, is digging his heels in,
holed up
in the presidential palace, in
power for 22
years, once said he'd rule
Gambia for a billion
years, Allah permitting.
In a show of regional unity,
troops from the
Economic Community of West
African States
on the move into Gambia, the aim
to pressurize
Jammeh to relinquish power.
These pictures taken today
reportedly show
ECOWAS forces in Senegal heading
for the Gambian
border, ultimate destination,
the capital.
This is a decisive moment for
the region,
an early intervention by a
coalition of West
African countries dealing with a
West African
problem, the inauguration, a
decisive moment
for Gambians themselves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, the West
African military
force halted its advance into
Gambia until
midday tomorrow, to give
mediation a last
chance.
Disaster struck in the capital
of Iran this
morning, when a 17-story
building caught fire
and collapsed.
The mayor of Tehran said that at
least 20
firefighters were killed.
The casualty figures fluctuated
as rescuers
searched the wreckage for
survivors and bodies.
State TV showed the moment the
historic building
crumbled, with firefighters
still inside.
One official said the fire was
caused by an
electrical short-circuit.
In Central Italy, rescuers spent
this day
desperately digging into a
luxury mountain
hotel that was shattered by an
avalanche.
They found two survivors and two
bodies, but
up to 30 people could have been
inside.
Aerial views showed the
four-story hotel buried
up the roof, and its sides
smashed in.
Crew used heavy vehicles to
clear paths through
snow as deep as 16 feet.
MAN (through translator): I want
to say that
we are all holding our breath
for what has
happened last night with the
avalanche.
We saw the videos of rescuers
reaching the
hotel.
These videos bear testimony to
the sense of
duty of the rescuers, but also
to the very
hard conditions they are
operating in.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The avalanche
followed a series
of strong earthquakes in the
area, but it's
unclear if the quakes caused the
disaster.
Mexico announced late today that
it has extradited
the accused drug lord Joaquin
"El Chapo" Guzman
to the U.S.
He allegedly founded and led the
Sinaloa cartel.
Guzman was captured in Mexico in
early 2014.
He escaped and was finally
recaptured a year
ago.
Back in this country, the
Republican National
Committee has elected a new
chair, Ronna Romney
McDaniel.
She's a niece of Mitt Romney,
the party's
presidential nominee four years
ago, and the
choice of president-elect Trump.
She takes over for Reince
Priebus, who's becoming
Mr. Trump's White House chief of
staff.
And on Wall Street, stocks
slipped again,
as yields on bonds rose.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 72 points
to close at 19732.
The Nasdaq fell 15, and the S&P
500 slipped
eight.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the nominees
for treasury and energy
secretary face tough
questions before the Senate; a
rocky presidential
transition on national security;
the difficult
road of people who appear
middle-class, but
are on the edge of financial
ruin; and much
more.
The president-elect moved a bit
closer to
getting his Cabinet in place
with another
round of confirmation hearings
today.
The most contentious was for his
treasury
secretary pick, Steven Mnuchin,
a billionaire
banker who worked at Goldman
Sachs and owned
a hedge fund.
There was important news that
came out during
the hearing.
Mnuchin said that he would
support raising
the debt ceiling sooner rather
than later,
and not risk the country
defaulting.
The president-elect had
previously suggested
that he might want to
renegotiate the government's
obligations instead.
But most of the focus was on
Mnuchin's business
background and investments.
Lisa Desjardins has our report.
LISA DESJARDINS: He came
prepared for a broadside
attack.
STEVEN MNUCHIN, Treasury
Secretary Nominee:
I have been maligned as taking
advantage of
others' hardships in order to
earn a buck.
Nothing could be further than
the truth.
LISA DESJARDINS: Steven Mnuchin
began his
appeal to become treasury
secretary by defending
his record at the helm of
OneWest, a bank
that Democratic critics say was
a foreclosure
machine during the housing
crisis.
STEVEN MNUCHIN: OneWest extended
over 100,000
loan modifications to delinquent
borrowers
to try to help them out of a bad
situation.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Oregon
Democrat Ron Wyden
disputed Mnuchin's version.
SEN.
RON WYDEN (D), Oregon:
Investigations found
that the bank frequently
mishandled documents
and skipped over reviewing them.
All it took to plunge families
into the nightmare
of potentially losing their home
was 30 seconds
of sloppy paperwork and a few
haphazard signatures.
LISA DESJARDINS: It was some of
the most dogged
questioning of president-elect
Trump's nominees
yet, and it was tense between
senators.
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS (R), Kansas: Senator
Wyden, I
have got a Valium pill you might
want to take
before the second round,
SEN.
SHERROD BROWN (D), Ohio: Mr.
Chairman, Mr.
Chairman, I hope that that
comment about Valium
doesn't set the tone for 2017 in
this committee.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wyden also
pressed Mnuchin
about reports that he initially
didn't reveal
more than $100 million of assets
on disclosure
forms and that he left out his
role directing
some offshore accounts.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: How many employees
did you have
in Anguilla?
STEVEN MNUCHIN: We didn't have
any employees
in Anguilla.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: How many customers
did you have
there?
STEVEN MNUCHIN: We didn't have
any customers
that resided in Anguilla.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: Did you have an
office there?
STEVEN MNUCHIN: We didn't have a
office ourselves
there.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: So you just had a
post office box?
STEVEN MNUCHIN: I would
diligently look at
these things, and I can assure
you I paid
all my taxes as was required.
LISA DESJARDINS: New Jersey
Senator Bob Menendez
dug in.
SEN.
ROBERT MENENDEZ (D), New Jersey:
One doesn't
go and create offshore entities
at the end
of the day, other than to avoid,
in some form
or fashion, the tax laws of the
United States.
That's pretty simple.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Mnuchin
surprised some,
saying that he agrees that
offshore accounts
are a problem he wants to fix.
STEVEN MNUCHIN: Well, first of
all, I'm absolutely
committed to work with you and
your office,
as I have said, on tax
simplification and
to cut down and make sure that
we don't let
anybody avoid taxes.
I would be happy to work with
your office
to simplify the tax code.
LISA DESJARDINS: Committee
Chairman Orrin
Hatch called Democrats' focus on
those offshore
accounts hypocritical and
ironic.
SEN.
ORRIN HATCH (R), Utah:
Evidently, memories
are short.
At least two of President
Obama's nominees
who now sit in his Cabinet had
Cayman Island
holdings.
LISA DESJARDINS: Democrats
returned to Mnuchin's
role with OneWest back in 2009.
According to an independent
California housing
organization, OneWest
aggressively foreclosed
on some 60,000 homes while
Mnuchin ran it.
Also this fall, two advocacy
groups asked
the Department of Housing and
Urban Development
to investigate possible
discrimination, charging
that OneWest offered fewer
mortgages and options
to minorities.
Mnuchin sold that bank for $3.4
billion in
2015 and has denied anything
improper.
He told the committee it wasn't
just about
profit, but saving a dying bank.
STEVEN MNUCHIN: Overall, I
helped many homeowners
stay in their homes and escape
financial ruin
through my management of OneWest
Bank.
My experience confirms that we
must identify
and eliminate unwise and
burdensome policies
which contributed to the
disastrous outcomes
that came in the wake of the
financial collapse.
LISA DESJARDINS: At one point,
the treasury
nominee also pushed back at
Democrats.
STEVEN MNUCHIN: It seems to me,
in all due
respect, you just want to shoot
questions
at me and not let you...
SEN.
SHERROD BROWN: I will let you
explain when
I'm done.
(CROSSTALK)
STEVEN MNUCHIN: Let people at
least understand
these are complicated questions.
SEN.
SHERROD BROWN: They are
complicated.
LISA DESJARDINS: As the top
economic official,
there was plenty of policy talk,
too.
Mnuchin said he would enforce
current Russian
sanctions and would keep the
Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, though he
questioned its
funding source.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Lisa joins me
now.
So, Lisa, you were there for the
hours of
this hearing.
Did you come away with a
particular impression
of Steven Mnuchin?
LISA DESJARDINS: As you saw, I
had a good
seat.
And I have to say, I think what
he was trying
to telegraph to the committee
that he is more
moderate than his opponents are
casting him.
Now, we have to see what he does
if he's confirmed
as secretary, but things like
the CFPB, saying
that he would keep that, and he
also said
things like, I want to increase
the staff
at the IRS.
These are things conservatives
have traditionally
gone after, and he's said to
this committee,
I'm going to be more reasonable.
He used those words.
JUDY WOODRUFF: CFPB being the
Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.
LISA DESJARDINS: Financial
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to ask you
about the
status of one of the
president-elect's other
nominees to be the budget
director, Mick Mulvaney,
the congressman from South
Carolina.
He has run into some problems
over an employee
of his family.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's correct.
That's right.
He told the Senate about a month
ago that
he found out a caregiver for his
children
who worked for him for a few
years, he didn't
pay taxes for that person.
And he's now paying those back
taxes, but
it seems that this might really
be a problem.
And the reason I think so is
that we haven't
seen statements from leading
Republicans supporting
him today.
And I spoke to another
Republican senator,
Judy, who says there's another
issue.
They're concerned because
Mulvaney in the
past has asked to cut defense
spending in
a way that Republicans don't
like.
So, it will come down to his
hearing next
week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, now,
one other thing
I want to ask you about.
We know that Republicans want as
many of these
nominees confirmed as soon as
possible.
Democrats are not in the
majority, but they
have the ability to slow them
down, and that's
what they're doing.
LISA DESJARDINS: You heard that
from Chuck
Schumer in John's report
earlier.
That's right.
Democrats said today they are
going to allow
two nominees to be confirmed
tomorrow on Inauguration
Day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just two?
LISA DESJARDINS: Just two, in
the evening.
Those are the defense secretary,
James Mattis,
and also Department of Homeland
Security Secretary
John -- I'm sorry -- John Kelly.
The two Marine Corps generals
are going to
be confirmed, but not
necessarily Mike Pompeo.
Senator Ron Wyden has an
objection to the
CIA director-designate.
That's a real concern for
Republicans.
They say that's a security risk.
It might be a political risk for
Democrats.
They say Pompeo is likely to be
confirmed
soon, but it doesn't look like
tomorrow.
As for the rest of these
nominees, Democrats
say they are planning to slow
down the process,
that they want more
deliberation.
How can they do that if they're
in the minority?
Well, under Senate rules, they
can use procedure
to add lots of debate time for
each nominee.
It looks like they're planning
to do that.
Watch the especially
non-controversial ones
like Elaine Chao, Ben Carson.
What happens with them?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Republicans
not happy about
this.
LISA DESJARDINS: No, they're not
happy.
And it's building to not just a
sense of typical
strategy here, but real tension
between the
two sides.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins,
thank you.
Appreciate it.
The other confirmation hearing
we were watching
today was the one for Mr.
Trump's pick for
the secretary of energy, former
Texas Governor
Rick Perry.
Now, Perry called for the
elimination of that
very department when he ran for
president
in 2012.
And then he forgot the name of
the department
during a debate.
Well, much of the department's
role is devoted
to monitoring, maintaining and
keeping safe
the nation's nuclear stockpile.
Today, Perry admitted that he
didn't truly
understand its scope and mission
until recently,
and he said he now has a
different attitude.
RICK PERRY, Secretary of Energy
Nominee: My
past statements made over five
years ago about
abolishing the Department of
Energy do not
reflect my current thinking.
In fact, after being briefed on
so many of
the vital functions of the
Department of Energy,
I regret recommending its
elimination.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Perry, who has
previously has
denied the science of climate
change, also
spoke about his views on that
subject.
Senators pressed him on whether
he would even
protect scientists within the
department and
their budget.
And along a similar line of
questioning, he
also was asked about reports
that the Trump
transition team wants to cut
funding for programs
promoting renewable energy.
Here's how some of that played
out.
RICK PERRY: I believe that
climate is changing.
I believe some of it is
naturally occurring,
but some of it is caused by
manmade activity.
The question is how we address
it in a thoughtful
way that doesn't compromise
economic growth,
it affects the affordability of
energy or
American jobs.
SEN.
MARIA CANTWELL (D), Washington:
Do you plan
to protect the science research
at DOE related
to climate?
RICK PERRY: Senator, I am going
to protect
the men and women of the
scientific community
from anyone that would attack
them no matter
what their reason may be, at the
Department
of Energy.
SEN.
DEBBIE STABENOW (D), Michigan:
How do you
see your role?
You're coming into a new
position where we
are talking about massive cuts
in the kinds
of things that you have
advocated for, you
supported in your role as
governor things,
that are critical to the future
of the economy
and lowering emissions and
creating more efficiency?
RICK PERRY: I will be an
advocate for that.
I will be in the room advocating
for these
types of things.
I'm not going to tell you I'm
going to be
1000 percent successful in that.
SEN.
MAZIE HIRONO (D), Hawaii: My
question is,
do you support these cuts, yes
or no?
RICK PERRY: Well, Senator, maybe
they will
have the same experience I had
and forget
that they said that, but...
SEN.
MAZIE HIRONO: We're counting on
you.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The next round of
confirmation
hearings starts again on
Tuesday.
And moments ago, president-elect
Trump spoke
before the crowd gathered for an
inaugural
concert at the Lincoln Memorial.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: We all
got tired of seeing what was
happening, And
we wanted change, but we wanted
real change.
And I look so forward to
tomorrow.
We're going to see something
that is going
to be so amazing.
NARRATOR: January 20, 2017, the
inauguration
of Donald J. Trump, the 45th
president of
the United States, day one of a
new era.
Join "PBS NewsHour" for live
coverage and
analysis you won't find anywhere
else, Friday,
January 20 at 11:00 a.m., 10:00
Central, only
on PBS.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the
national security
and diplomatic transition from
the Obama to
the Trump administrations.
Last week, I asked outgoing
Secretary of State
John Kerry how well the
transition was proceeding.
And he bluntly answered,
"Smoothly, because
there's not an enormous amount
of it."
He also said he had yet to meet
his designated
successor, Rex Tillerson.
Today, with less than 24 hours
left in his
tenure, Kerry's spokesman was
asked if the
two men had met.
JOHN KIRBY, Pentagon Press
Secretary: The
secretary made very clear that
he was willing
to met with Mr. Tillerson.
And, as I understand it, they
just weren't
able to get it on the schedule.
So -- but he did speak to him on
the phone.
I think it was trying to work
both men's schedules.
As you know, the secretary also
went on a
weeklong trip.
So, he -- they worked to try to
make it happen.
And they just weren't able to
get it on both
men's schedule at a time that
was mutually
convenient for both of them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Apart from Kerry
and Tillerson,
some Obama Cabinet secretaries
have met their
designated successors.
But, as John Yang reported
earlier, the incoming
Trump administration was forced
to defend
the pace of its staffing of
important national
security and diplomatic jobs
today after a
series of reports detailed a
disjointed transition.
For that, we turn now to the
author of one
of those reports, New York Times
White House
correspondent Mark Landler, and
to Roger Cressey.
He was the deputy for
counterterrorism on
the National Security Council
staff from 1999
to 2001.
He was there during the
transition from President
Clinton to George W. Bush.
He is now a security consultant.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
Mark Landler, to you first.
In that story you wrote
yesterday, you referred
to the staff of president-elect
Trump barely
having engaged with the current
National Security
Council staff below the most
senior levels.
What is the level of contact
between the two?
MARK LANDLER, The New York
Times: Well, the
incoming national security
adviser, General
Michael Flynn, has met four
times with his
predecessor, Susan Rice.
And there has been significant
meetings at
the deputy level, K.T.
McFarland with Admiral Haines,
and at one
level below that, General Keith
Kellogg, who
is going to be the incoming
chief of staff
of the NSC.
But below that level, which is
to say, all
the senior directors that
oversee departments
in the National Security
Council, there has
been very little, if any
contact.
And this is for a number of
reasons, one of
which is the fact that the Trump
transition
has been marked by a kind of a
rotating cast.
The NSC and the White House is
now dealing
with the third transition team
since the election.
And with that constant upheaval,
it's been
difficult for them to establish
relationships,
for the Trump people to get the
security clearances
they need to begin reading
classified information.
So, a process that would have
unfolded pretty
intensively starting on November
10 or 11
has really only swung into gear
really in
the last two weeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roger Cressey,
what are you
hearing about how it's going to
at the National
Security Council?
ROGER CRESSEY, Former National
Security County
Staff: Well, they have
definitely lost time.
And I think there is some
concern on the part
of the career people that there
is not enough
communication with the incoming
team, so that
the new team is fully up on all
the nuances
of what they're inheriting.
The reality, Judy, is, no matter
who comes
into office, they're always
unprepared for
what they're about to inherit.
And I think there is some
concern that there
may not be enough preparation
before the new
team arrives tomorrow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Roger
Cressey, staying
with you, how does this compare
to previous
transitions?
ROGER CRESSEY: Well, we have
seen some where
they have been very short.
When I was there in 2000-2001
with -- going
from President Clinton to
President Bush,
that was very short.
But, even then, we met with
Condi Rice, with
Steve Hadley, the national
security adviser,
the deputy.
They went around to each office
to meet the
team that was there that they
were inheriting
and also to get a better
perspective on what
each office was doing.
So, I think the challenge for
General Flynn,
for K.T.
McFarland is to get up to speed
as quickly
as possible with the career
people that are
staying, so they can understand
what the current
state of affairs are and all the
issues they
are going to inherit tomorrow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we should
say, General
Flynn, of course, is the
incoming national
security adviser to the
president.
K.T.
McFarland is his deputy.
Mark Landler, give us a picture
of the National
Security Council staff.
How many of those positions are
going to be
holdovers, if any, and how many
are going
to be empty when the Trump team
comes in?
MARK LANDLER: Well, Roger knows
more about
this than I do, but at the level
of the professional
staff, you have a lot of
directorates in the
NSC.
The senior directors, the people
that run
those departments, tend to be
political appointees.
And most, if not all of those
jobs will be
vacant and will be filled by the
incoming
administration.
But below that, you have a cadre
of professionals
at the director level.
Most of these people are
seconded from other
agencies, say, from the Pentagon
or the State
Department, and are at the White
House for
a set period of time.
When the Obama administration
came in, they
basically held over people in
those positions,
which provided the important
continuity.
The Trump team has told me they
plan to do
the same thing.
So it is not as though General
Flynn will
come in and find an empty
building.
He won't.
He will find dozens of very
well-briefed,
experienced senior-level people.
What he will have to do, though,
very quickly
is put in a layer of senior
directors.
Now, they say that they have
identified and
chosen many of these people, and
they just
haven't publicly announced them
yet.
So that will all unfold
presumably in the
opening days after the president
is inaugurated.
But, again, where they have lost
time is in
all of these people reading into
the reams
and reams of paper that lay out
the administration's
current policies, that lay out
the major flash
points they're going to face
around the world.
And that's time that they could
well have
used starting as early as late
November and
early December of last year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Roger
Cressey, if you're
part of this incoming Trump
team, what are
you worried that you may not
know?
ROGER CRESSEY: Well, all special
assistants
to the president are typically
political appointees
of the first year of the new
president.
So, their job is to shape policy
for the new
president.
The career people that Mark
referred to are
there to provide continuity of
operations
to ensure that balls are not
dropped, but
they are not going to make any
new policy
pronouncements.
So, the new people come in to do
two things
to, to do a review of existing
policy to see
where they might want to change
it, and then
to put in place the actual new
policy, a presidential
review directive, to a
presidential decision
directive.
So, these senior people that
have to be appointed
cleared at the top-secret
codeword level,
are going to come in to do that.
So, General Flynn, K.T.
McFarland can rely on their
career people
to provide up-to-date
information on daily
activities, but no new policy is
going to
happen until this new team comes
in at the
special assistant to the
president level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's where
you're talking
about a delay.
So, I finally want to ask both
of you, to
Mark Landler again on this, as
we look ahead
to the Trump administration, its
foreign policy,
it's national security policy,
do we read
something into that by what's
happened right
now?
MARK LANDLER: Well, look, I
think it's fair
to say that this election
brought a very unexpected
outcome, that the Trump people
were probably
starting off from a standing
start.
There was a lot of upheaval in
the early days.
You remember that the original
transition
team was led by Governor Chris
Christie, and
that team was purged almost
immediately after
the election.
I guess the one thing I would
watch for is
if this kind of upheaval,
improvisation, frequent
shifts either in personnel or in
policy continue
to be a hallmark of the new
administration's
style.
If they do, as some people think
they will,
we could be in for a bumpy ride
on national
security.
But it's also possible that once
they get
their team in place and they
settle down on
their key priorities, that we
sort of return
to regular order, and things
begin unfolding.
And I'm sure Roger will say,
every administration
faces a kind of a baptism by
fire, so I don't
think it's fair to necessarily
assume that
these people are going to be off
the rails
immediately.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just 15 seconds.
What do you think in terms of
what this says
about the future?
ROGER CRESSEY: The wheel of
government will
continue to work, even as these
people come
in and we wait for them, but the
issue is,
there's always one thing, as
Mark says, that
a new administration confronts.
For the Bush administration, it
was terrorism.
For this administration, it's
going to be
cyber-security, not Russian
hacking.
That's a symptom of the bigger
problem, but
the bigger issue of cyber, how
they deal with
that.
So, we may see something else
we're not anticipating.
That's going to be their
challenge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roger Cressey,
Mark Landler,
thank you both.
MARK LANDLER: Thank you so much.
ROGER CRESSEY: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now our economics
correspondent
Paul Solman takes a look at what
has become
the new normal for many members
of the aging
middle class: financial
fragility.
It's part of his weekly series,
Making Sense,
which airs Thursdays on the
"NewsHour."
ELIZABETH WHITE, Author,
"Fifty-Five, Unemployed
and Faking Normal": Everybody is
pretending.
PAUL SOLMAN: And that's why you
call the book
"Faking Normal"?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Right, because
there's a
lot of pressure to seem like you
are doing
well.
PAUL SOLMAN: Elizabeth White is
not doing
terribly well, as she painfully
chronicles
in the book she's just
self-published, "Fifty-Five
Unemployed and Faking Normal."
White's been on the edge of the
financial
cliff for years, even though you
would never
know it from how she looks or
the Washington,
D.C., townhouse she bought years
ago, one
she couldn't even dream of
renting today.
But you haven't been in a
situation where
you literally couldn't afford
whatever it
is, the condo fee, or?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Oh, absolutely,
I have.
I right now have to park outside
because I'm
in arrears on the condo fee,
right now.
PAUL SOLMAN: And she's
refinanced to the hilt,
taken in a boarder.
Well, you haven't used food
stamps.
ELIZABETH WHITE: But I have.
I have had to.
PAUL SOLMAN: It's been quite a
comeuppance
for someone with her background.
ELIZABETH WHITE: I have a
bachelor's from
Oberlin.
I have a master's in
international studies
from Johns Hopkins.
I have a Harvard MBA, worked at
the World
Bank, came in through a program
where they
recruited 5,000 people.
They took two Americans out of
that 25.
I was one of the Americans.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, ultimately,
White decided
to leave the bank to start her
own business.
ELIZABETH WHITE: I had a chain
of stores,
of decorative home stores.
PAUL SOLMAN: Really?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Yes.
I sold some of the things you
see here, African-inspired
products.
I realized that there was an
African-American
market that wanted things in
their home that
reflected heritage and culture.
If you wanted to give your
little girl a black
Raggedy Ann doll, you couldn't
easily find
it.
So I just curated that from all
over.
So, I then bet the ranch that I
could get
this going.
So, I took a lot of my -- not
all of it, but
I took a big chunk of my World
Bank money
to sort of fund this.
PAUL SOLMAN: Retirement savings.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Savings.
But it wasn't going -- it was
doing well,
but I couldn't see -- my vendors
of artisan
producers were not going to be
able to blow
this out into a national chain,
were already
struggling with volume.
PAUL SOLMAN: Did you sell your
stores?
ELIZABETH WHITE: No.
Closed it in the end.
Just didn't -- didn't work.
PAUL SOLMAN: But steady
consulting work allowed
White to maintain an
upper-middle class lifestyle
for awhile, until the crash of
'08.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Within six
months, I went
from, you know, probably close
to 200?
PAUL SOLMAN: Thousand dollars a
year.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Right, to zero.
PAUL SOLMAN: And after that, the
jobs of the
past were nowhere to be found.
ELIZABETH WHITE: This is, to me,
where the
age discrimination piece
happens.
I find it much harder at this
phase of life
to get hired than I did earlier.
PAUL SOLMAN: But you look so
young.
And I'm not just saying that to,
you know,
flatter you or something.
I mean, you surely can pass now
-- you're
62 or something?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Three.
PAUL SOLMAN: Sixty-three.
And you could pass for your 50s,
easily, mid-50s,
early 50s, right?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Early 50s is
not considered
young in the workplace.
PAUL SOLMAN: No, it's not, as we
learned in
an interview with economist
Teresa Ghilarducci,
citing a study by the New York
Federal Reserve.
TERESA GHILARDUCCI, The New
School for Social
Research: From 45 to 55, wages
decrease by
9 percent, from 55 to 65,
another 9 percent.
So this age earning profile,
where you kind
of peak and then it flattens out
and falls,
that age of peaking is a lot
younger than
we ever thought.
PAUL SOLMAN: And that
corresponds to age discrimination
as measured in economic
experiments by the
likes of Joanna Lahey, who sent
fake resumes
to employers.
The red dots show where on the
resumes H.R.
managers looked, and for how
long.
And when does age discrimination
start?
JOANNA LAHEY, The Bush School of
Government
and Public Service: Immediately.
It starts at age 35.
PAUL SOLMAN: Really?
JOANNA LAHEY: Yes.
It's a pretty steady process.
PAUL SOLMAN: And it's women more
than men?
JOANNA LAHEY: It's definitely
women more than
men.
PAUL SOLMAN: No wonder career
coaches tell
you to wipe the dates off your
C.V., but,
says White:
ELIZABETH WHITE: When they then
ask you to
fill out the application that's
all algorithm-driven,
you cannot leave off when you
graduated from
college.
And once you put that date in
there...
PAUL SOLMAN: Then it's...
ELIZABETH WHITE: They know.
Now, as you get older, your
network also is
not what it used to be.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because they're
losing their
jobs?
ELIZABETH WHITE: They're losing
their jobs.
They are retiring.
They're not hearing about
things.
They're winding down.
People have died.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, White has been
scraping by
with scattered freelance gigs.
ELIZABETH WHITE: It's sort of
bits and pieces
that allow me to cobble together
income.
PAUL SOLMAN: But nowhere near
the income of
the past?
ELIZABETH WHITE: No, no.
PAUL SOLMAN: Not even close.
ELIZABETH WHITE: No.
I mean, again, I have years of,
you know,
under $30,000.
PAUL SOLMAN: Help has come from
unexpected
sources, like neighborhood free
spirit Elijah,
a clothing minimalist.
ELIZABETH WHITE: I was getting
on the far
side of where my mortgage
company was getting,
like, serious with me.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because you were
behind in your
payments.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Behind.
He just said, Lizzy, I will do
it.
I can do it.
PAUL SOLMAN: But I will do it,
meaning, I
will make up the difference.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Yes, I will do
it.
PAUL SOLMAN: I will pay -- he
will pay your
mortgage?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Right.
So, this is my Elijah (ph).
It's my Elijah, yes.
MAN: I'm the people's Elijah.
PAUL SOLMAN: The Vietnam vet
gets about $900
in monthly benefits, saves
almost half.
MAN: I'm not a things person.
How much money do you think I'm
spending on
my attire, OK?
ELIZABETH WHITE: As he says, I
have a few
friends like you who are in the
stuff world,
is what he calls, and you're
always getting
into some kind of mishap.
PAUL SOLMAN: Grateful to get by
with a little
help from her friends.
White was also embarrassed.
ELIZABETH WHITE: You're the
loser.
You know?
How can you have this kind of
background and
be landing here?
PAUL SOLMAN: There must be
something wrong
with you.
ELIZABETH WHITE: There has to
be.
And -- and then you read things
like, oh,
it's the latte factor, it's all
that bottled
water you were drinking.
You know, it's a...
PAUL SOLMAN: The latte factor,
meaning you
were spending too much money
on...
ELIZABETH WHITE: Spent money,
right.
PAUL SOLMAN: On Starbucks.
ELIZABETH WHITE: Right.
PAUL SOLMAN: But you could've
saved more,
couldn't have you?
ELIZABETH WHITE: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, are you...
ELIZABETH WHITE: I could've not
started a
business, I stayed at the World
Bank, not
taken that, you know, risk.
PAUL SOLMAN: But she did.
Her reward?
Financial fragility, something
she now shares
with a surprisingly large
portion of the former
so-called middle class.
From Washington, D.C., this is
economics correspondent
Paul Solman, grateful to be
reporting for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're
grateful you are
too.
In next Thursday's Making Sense:
how common
Elizabeth White's plight is
these days, and
her tips for how to be normal in
the face
of financial adversity, instead
of continuing
to fake it.
Tonight marks President Obama's
final full
day in office.
We look back at those years now
with someone
who was there with him from day
one, his press
secretary, Josh Earnest.
John Yang met with Earnest at
the White House
to ask him about the challenges
of the job
and what he wishes for his
successor.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
I joined the campaign in April
2007, so it's
been a while now.
JOHN YANG: Josh Earnest was
there when Barack
Obama was a senator running for
president,
and he will be there when the
lights go out
in the Obama White House.
JOSH EARNEST: Thank you, all.
It's been a genuine pleasure.
JOHN YANG: So, flash-forward
eight years.
JOSH EARNEST: Yes.
JOHN YANG: What does it feel
like?
JOSH EARNEST: It feels like that
was a million
years ago, but it feels like
that million
years has flown by.
JOHN YANG: Earnest took over
from Jay Carney
as White House press secretary
in 2014.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Today, the flak jacket is
officially passed
to a new generation, Mr. Josh
Earnest.
JOSH EARNEST: When he first
offered me this
job back in the summer of 2014,
we were talking
a little bit about what his
expectations were
for the person who was going to
be in this
role.
And he said: You know, one of
the things you
should know is, I don't intend
to watch your
briefing every day.
And if there's ever a situation
where you're
prepared to walk out to the
briefing, and
there's something that you're
not sure about
or something you need to ask me
about, then
just let me know, and I will
make sure that
that have got an opportunity to
come in here
and talk to me before you have
to go there
and address the public.
It's something that I have used
frequently
to make sure that the
information that I'm
conveying to the reporters in
this room is
not just accurate, but
accurately reflects
the president's thinking.
JOHN YANG: In 345 briefings, an
exercise he's
likened to catching javelins,
Earnest has
defended President Obama's
policies.
JOSH EARNEST: That's consistent
with the president's
vision since he took office, and
it's also
consistent with his record.
JOHN YANG: Bantered with
reporters.
JOSH EARNEST: I'm sure we will
try to come
up with something to talk about
today.
JOHN YANG: And even raised
eyebrows and drew
criticism by mocking then
candidate Donald
Trump's appearance.
JOSH EARNEST: The Trump campaign
for months
now has had a dustbin-of-
history-like quality
to it, from the vacuous
sloganeering, to the
outright lies, to even the fake
hair.
JOHN YANG: Some critics accuse
the administration
of criminalizing investigative
reporting by
aggressively targeting leaks.
Despite that, Earnest says the
toughest part
is the unrelenting pace.
I don't think people appreciate
how early
you and other members of the
White House staff
get here every morning, the
meetings you have
early to get things going.
JOSH EARNEST: So, that is the
part of it that
is challenging day after day
after day.
It's not that there is any one
long day.
It's that that long day is then
followed up
by another day that's moving at
a pretty good
pace.
JOHN YANG: Despite that, Earnest
says he will
miss the daily sense of purpose.
JOSH EARNEST: When it's time to
get to work,
feeling this intense motivation
to get the
job done and get it done the
right way.
There's something that really
stokes the internal
fires about this job, that it's
hard to imagine
how that ever gets replaced, if
it ever does.
MAN: We made a special one for
him.
JOSH EARNEST: Oh, wow.
JOHN YANG: There have been
personal perks,
like welcoming his beloved
Kansas City Royals
to the White House as 2015 World
Series champs.
BARACK OBAMA: You look so
powerful.
JOHN YANG: and having his
2-year-old son,
Walker, meet the president at
Halloween.
WALKER EARNEST, Son of Josh
Earnest: That's
POTUS.
JOSH EARNEST: I know.
That was POTUS.
JOHN YANG: But Earnest says
dealing with the
press day in and day out is
serious business.
What do you wish for Sean
Spicer, your successor?
JOSH EARNEST: I hope he succeeds
in this job.
I think that it's a critically
important job
that requires the buy-in, not
just of the
person who's standing behind the
podium, but
by a whole White House staff
that needs to
be invested in his success.
JOHN YANG: As he prepares to
leave the White
House, Earnest thinks back to
when he moved
to Washington 16 years ago.
He toured the White House in the
closing days
of the Clinton administration.
JOSH EARNEST: I remember walking
into this
room.
And I took a picture behind that
podium, wearing
my overcoat, and thought about
what a special
opportunity it would be to work
here in the
West Wing.
In some ways, you know, my
departure here
really brings the whole thing
full circle.
BARACK OBAMA: So, Josh,
congratulations.
JOSH EARNEST: Thank you, sir.
(APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm John
Yang at the White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can find
all of our
conversations with outgoing
members of the
Obama administration and other
coverage of
achievements, controversies and
challenges
of the last eight years in The
Obama Years.
That's on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
Now a veteran filmmaker takes on
the art of
poetry.
Jeffrey Brown has our look at
the new movie
"Paterson."
ADAM DRIVER, Actor: I go through
trillions
of molecules that move aside to
make way for
me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Where does poetry
come from?
It's not a question normally
posed by a film.
JIM JARMUSCH, Director: I
remember giving
the script, sending it first to
Ron.
And he called me and said, wow,
Jim, I think
you're really going for the big
bucks here,
a poet who's a bus driver in New
Jersey, you
know?
JEFFREY BROWN: The script that
director Jim
Jarmusch shared with his friend
poet Ron Padgett
was for the film "Paterson," and
it is indeed
about a bus driver, played by
Adam Driver,
making his daily route through
the streets
of Paterson, New Jersey, taking
in what's
around him, overhearing
conversations, using
the stuff of everyday life to
write poems,
which we hear him recite and see
on screen.
ADAM DRIVER: Another one.
When you're a child, you learn
there are three
dimensions, height, width and
depth, like
a shoe box.
Then, later, you hear there's a
fourth dimension,
time.
JEFFREY BROWN: That and other
plainspoken
poems in the film were actually
written by
74-year-old Padgett,
prize-winning poet, essayist
and translator who's been
publishing his work
since the 1960s.
He said he was taken aback at
first when Jim
Jarmusch asked if he wanted to
write new poems
for the film.
RON PADGETT, Poet: And then we
hung up, and
I started thinking, why not?
Why do I have to be such a
chicken?
Why can't I just really accept
this challenge?
And not too long there
thereafter -- and I
had read the script, and I kind
of had an
idea about this character,
Paterson.
I kind of found myself falling
into what I
kind of temporarily fantasized
to be his world.
I tried to make it by him, not
by me, but
also by me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Poetry was also a
longtime
love of Jim Jarmusch, who,,
beginning in the
1980s in films like "Stranger
Than Paradise"
and "Down By Law," established
himself as
a filmmaker with a very personal
and distinctly
non-Hollywood vision.
As movies seem to get ever
bigger and louder,
he's managed to set his own
pace.
JIM JARMUSCH: I love the form of
filmmaking.
I love all the aspects of it,
except financing
and promoting them.
But it's such a beautiful form
to me.
I know that I'm not able to make
someone else's
film for them in, say, a studio
setting.
I can't have other people's
input who are
thinking about the commercial
viability of
the film affecting how the film
is made or
what goes into it.
I would end up in jail, having
kneecapped
some executive who previously
ran an underwear
factory.
You know, I'm a filmmaker.
This is what I'm learning to do.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the film
"Paterson," Jarmusch
has also created an ode to an
earlier "Paterson,"
the epic poem written in the
1940s and '50s
by one of America's most
renowned poets, William
Carlos Williams.
Williams lived and worked as a
doctor in the
area.
In the poem's preface, Williams
writes: "To
make a start out of particulars
and make them
general."
The bus driver in the film
"Paterson" is no
William Carlos Williams.
He's never published a thing and
is unlikely
to.
But he'd understand the
sentiment.
ADAM DRIVER: I'm working on a
poem for you.
ACTRESS: A love poem?
ADAM DRIVER: Yes.
I guess, if it's for you, it's a
love poem.
JEFFREY BROWN: And Jarmusch
picked up on the
notion of taking the particulars
of everyday
life, looking at them, listening
to them and
making art from them.
JIM JARMUSCH: Because he's a bus
driver, and
we have images flowing past him,
both visually
and things he overhears, he kind
of drifts
through his job, which is very
-- it's a routine,
right?
It's all very set for him.
And this allows him to just take
things in.
I think that's what poets -- in
this case,
he's a poet -- all people who
create things,
this is what they do.
They have to get input from
something.
JEFFREY BROWN: The stuff of life
becomes the
details of poetry.
RON PADGETT: I hope so.
I can't figure out where else to
get it.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: I asked Ron
Padgett, who's
taught writing to children,
college students
and adults, what people too
often don't get
about poetry.
RON PADGETT: They are given to
quote, I think,
wrong or misleading or narrow
idea of what
poetry is or can be.
And, secondly, they don't value
their own
imaginations.
They just suppress or don't want
to deal with
their imagination.
And yet it's so close to being a
poet in many
ways.
So, if we can only bust through
those barriers
-- and maybe a film like
"Paterson" will help
some people say, huh, maybe I
could write
something like this, too.
JEFFREY BROWN: The film
"Paterson" is now
in wide release around the
country.
From New York, I'm Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another in
our Brief
But Spectacular series, where we
ask interesting
people to describe their
passions.
Tonight, author and futurist Amy
Webb offers
us a glimpse of things to come
in the world
of tech.
Her latest book is "The Signals
Are Talking:
Why Today's Fringe Is Tomorrow's
Mainstream."
AMY WEBB, Author, "The Signals
Are Talking:
Why Today's Fringe Is Tomorrow's
Mainstream":
We don't stop to think about it,
but if you
really want to freak yourself
out, and you
own a cell phone, go to Google
and look up
your personal information, every
single place
that you have been since you
have been online.
While we don't think about those
digital bread
crumbs, there are lots of third
parties out
there that are happily scooping
them up and
doing something with that data.
If you stop to think about it,
your phone
knows you better, has a more
intimate relationship
with you than whoever it is that
you're sleeping
with, than your loved one.
This is for PBS, isn't it?
I can't say that.
QUESTION: You can say that.
AMY WEBB: We are entering a
period in which
you can be expected to talk to
machines for
the rest of your life.
The thing that's coming is
artificial intelligence.
It won't just be you talking to
a machine.
A lot of it's going to be
invisible, and it's
going to make our lives easier.
It's going to allow scientists
to leapfrog
ahead in their research.
And I do believe that, within my
lifetime,
life as we know it on this
planet is probably
going to look a little bit
different than
it is today.
There's some really interesting
bioinformation
tools that are coming to market.
So, one big trend is, how can we
prevent against
hackers?
No matter how hard we try to
tell people,
you have got to change your
passwords, most
people don't change their
passwords.
What if we no longer had
passwords, but instead
we are using our own biometric
information?
You're probably already doing
that if you
have a newer phone.
You're using your thumbprint as
a way to make
payments.
Some of the interesting things
on the horizon
are things like heat maps.
All of the capillaries of your
face are in
very slightly different places,
which means
that your face sort of gives off
this unique
heat map.
And that unique heat map is one
way that we
can authenticate you.
One of the challenges with
technology is that,
as it becomes more
sophisticated, it also
becomes more hidden.
If you look under the hood of a
modern car,
you see what looks like a flat
surface.
Not every person who drives a
car needs to
be Lewis Hamilton's F1 pit crew
boss, but
I do think it's dangerous for us
to continue
going forward without having
some of that
lexicon.
We have to be able to have
conversations with
each other and with the people
creating these
devices, because, if we can't
have the conversations,
then we can't ask the questions.
And if we can't ask the
questions, the problem
is that, 10 years into the
future, we're going
to look back at this moment in
time and wish
that we had done things
differently.
My name is Amy Webb, and this
was my Brief
But Spectacular take on the
future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
additional
Brief But Spectacular episodes
on our Web
site.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
And a news update.
The Pentagon announced this
evening that four
more prisoners have been
transferred away
from Guantanamo to the United
Arab Emirates
and to Saudi Arabia.
They are the final transfers
before President
Obama leaves office.
That means 41 inmates remain at
Guantanamo.
And tonight on PBS' "Charlie
Rose": vice president-elect
Mike Pence on what to expect
from the new
administration.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
Join us back here tomorrow
morning at 11:00
a.m.
Eastern for special live
coverage of the presidential
inauguration.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
We will see you online and again
right here
tomorrow evening as well.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.